---
title: "Space Odyssey & Time"
abstract: "3 am brain dump"
publishedAt: "2026-06-13"
cover: ""
coverAlt: ""
tags: ["non-fiction"]
draft: false
---

On a random Tuesday, I chose escapism.

My mind had suddenly become a pain to deal with. The constant inner chatter left me oscillating between old memories and future worries. I tried banging my head against the wall a few times, but that proved to only catalyse the process. I ran upstairs, slid my fingers through the neatly arranged Blu-ray discs, and picked up 2001: A Space Odyssey. Mind-fucks cancel out.

The jaw dropping 4k restoration of this 58 year old film instantly froze my mental time-travel. The Blue Danube carried me across the stars and the long uninterrupted shots of outer space left me hypnotised. Time was slowing down. And things only got a (little) worse.

The infinitely long scenes of people and things moving from one place to another unsettled me. It wasn't boredom (I guess). My mind was desperate to fill in the gaps. I was forcing myself to focus on whatever was happening on screen, but I failed miserably. Long stretches of the mundane and non-stimulating left enough room for random flashes of a prior memory or a proclaimed prophetic glimpse of the future. Reality was a side quest. I was entangled in a story-weaving process of my own, and I had no control over it.

The present was a checkpoint I could no longer define. The need to grasp the moment was taking place in the moment. But looking up from within the seemingly infinite depths of the many meta-escapism layers I had constructed for myself, I saw no escape. Kaleidoscopic colours flashed on the screen. The movie was the anchor, but I drifted. 

Then it happened. A sudden cessation of temporal vertigo. All it took 
was a simple notification. The sound pierced through my ears, galloped into my subconscious, and reached out for me across all the timelines I inhabited. As it stretched out its hands to grasp mine, I simply stared at my final chance of escape from within the depths. It was too late. But then it happened again.

*Ting.*

This time it wasn't so dramatic. I woke up with a jolt to see the credits rolling. I rubbed my eyes and blinked three times. I went outside, took a deep breath and looked at the coconut trees. Victims of an unruly wind, they danced reluctantly.
